---
title:  "Paul Meehl Graduate School Meta Research Symposium 2025"
layout: workshop_post
subtitle: October 17, 2025
---

## Description

Join us for the second edition of Paul Meehl Graduate School annual symposium. This event is designed to bring together both early-career researchers and established experts to exchange ideas, share experiences, and build a supportive community in the field of metascience.

We warmly encourage early career researchers (Master’s students, PhD candidates, and post-doctoral researchers) to present their ongoing meta-scientific work. At the same time, we value the participation of senior researchers, whose insights and feedback are crucial to enriching discussions.
## Keynoke Speakers

**Dr Duygu Uygun-Tunç**

**Dr Lisa Spitzer**

### Capacity

The maximum capacity for this event is 60 participants.

### Time and Location

This event will be held <ins>**on-site only**</ins> at Eindhoven University of Technology on **October 17, 2025**. Details will be provided to all attendees over email.

The event will start from 9:00 to 18:00 with a lunch break from 12:20 to 13:20.

## Participation

We welcome abstract submissions for talks via the following form:

[Participation Form](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=R_J9zM5gD0qddXBM9g78ZP_Kihp-VglPgWom9gajHXdURE9ESUpPT1hSWkVaNUdWQjJZQVJETTZUNy4u)

We invite contributions that present empirical findings, evaluative data, or conceptual and theoretical work with a strong focus on meta-scientific topics. Presentations should not exceed 20 minutes.

All accepted abstracts and titles will be made available to participants in advance. Please note that members of the Paul Meehl Graduate School will be given priority for presentation slots. If you are interested in becoming a member, you can find details and eligibility criteria [here](https://paulmeehlschool.github.io/membership/).

The deadline for submitting abstracts is <ins>**July 31, 2025**</ins>.

For any further inquiries, please contact us at [paulmeehlgraduateschool@tue.nl](mailto:paulmeehlgraduateschool@tue.nl)

## Registration

Attendance is free of charge, but registration is required.

*The registration form will open in mid-July.*

Your registration will be confirmed by email. Please note that your spot is only secured once you receive confirmation.

<br>
<br>
<br>

*This event is funded by the support of Open Science NL*
