---
title: "Quarto: Write, Code, Reproduce"
subtitle: December 12, 2025
author: Ambra Perugini
layout: workshop_post
---

## Course Description

Researchers often perform analyses in one software program and then manually export the results to another for presentations, papers, or reports. This process is not only time-consuming but also prone to errors. Moreover, it separates the analysis code from the final output, compromising reproducibility. RStudio allows users to perform analyses and automatically transform them into elegant reproducible reports, presentations, and papers by integrating text, code, and results using Quarto. With Quarto, the code, analyses, results, and reports all live in the same file. A major advantage of Quarto is that it is language-agnostic: it can render documents containing code written in R, Python or Julia. It also combines the functionality of R Markdown, bookdown, distill, and other tools into a single unified system, making it easier to create content in multiple output formats. 
This workshop introduces the use of Quarto for drafting documents and preparing presentations in both static (PDF) and dynamic (HTML) formats. During the hands-on part, participants will experiment with different document types, configure document settings via the YAML header, and use a toy dataset to include graphs, tables, and inline statistics directly in their documents. By the end of the workshop, participants will have learned the basics of Quarto and will be able to create their own reproducible reports, presentations, and theses supporting more rigorous and transparent scientific work.

<br>
## Prerequisites

A basic understanding of R is expected for this workshop. It is fundamental to arrive at the workshop with RStudio installed as part of the workshop will be hands-on. In order to create PDFs you will need to install a recent distribution of TeX (i.e. TinyTeX, which is based on TexLive). 

<br>

## Reading Materials

No reading materials.

<br>

### Capacity

This course has a maximum capacity of 35 participants.

<br>

### Time and Location

This workshop will be held <ins>**on-site only**</ins> at Eindhoven University of Technologyon **December 12, 2025**. Details will be provided to all attendees over email after registration for the workshop.

Workshops start from 9:30 to 16:30 with a lunch break from 12:30 to 13:30. Lunch will not be provided but can be purchased at the university canteen or the on-campus supermarket. 

<br>

### Registration

To register for this workshop, please complete the following form by **November 28th**. Note that your registration will be considered finalized only after receiving a confirmation email.

[Registration Form](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=R_J9zM5gD0qddXBM9g78ZP_Kihp-VglPgWom9gajHXdUOVdCUzVDMkUzRjExSUU3WVZTR0hBSFE0RC4u)


<br>

### Instructors

**Ambra Perugini**

Ambra Perugini is a 3rd year PhD candidate at University of Padova. Her research interest includes computation and interpretation of critical effect sizes and the overlapping index, open science, design analysis, statistical power, publication bias, and multi-lab collaborations.
